# The Sophomore

## How has your undergraduate experience been so far?

As an undergraduate, I am a part of a diverse community
of students from various backgrounds. I attended lectures,
seminars, and tutorials where I learned about various subjects
and gained valuable knowledge and skills. I also had the
opportunity to participate in extracurricular activities, such as
clubs and sports, which helped me develop my leadership,
teamwork, and time-management skills. The simple truth is that
these two years changed my life in a way I could never imagine.

## What is your preferred area of study; Management or IT? And why?

Definitely the answer is IT. The study of Information
Technology provides a foundation for a challenging and
rewarding career, and the opportunity to make a real impact in
the world through technology. Since our degree program delivers
up-to-date content, with my social skills, if I were to complete my
degree successfully, I would get a high- salary job for sure.

## You were the Chief Coordinator of hackX 2022, the inter-university startup challenge. Can you share the experience you gained from organizing such a successful event?

Organizing hackX 2022 was a complex and challenging task
that required strong leadership skills, attention to detail, and
the ability to work well with the team. As the Chief Coordinator,
I oversaw all aspects of the event, from securing funding and
recruiting participants to coordinating with the hackX team and
ensuring that the event runs smoothly on the day of.

## As an MITian who also represents the university hockey team, how would you put teamwork and dedication into your own words?

Teamwork and dedication are crucial qualities for success.
Teamwork involves working together with others towards a
common goal, while dedication refers to a strong commitment
and perseverance towards that task or goal. Together, they
create a powerful combination that enables individuals and
teams to achieve great things by combining their strengths and
maintaining a focused and determined effort.

In my own words, teamwork and dedication are the
foundation for success in hockey and in life. By working together
and staying committed to our goals, we can achieve great things
and make a positive impact both on and off the field.

## How do you strike a balance between your studies and extracurricular activities?

Balancing studies and extracurricular activities as an
undergraduate is simply prioritizing responsibilities, setting
achievable goals, and using effective time management
strategies. Making a schedule, breaking down tasks, and
knowing what is most important helped me to allocate time
effectively and maintain a healthy, well-rounded lifestyle.

## What improvements have you observed in yourself since becoming an undergraduate of the Department of Industrial Management?

Before these two years I was a student who enjoyed his
freedom to the fullest, but since the university started I would say
I have become a more organized and disciplined person. During
my school days I was more theory-oriented but now, I would say
I’m a very practical guy. All that credit goes to the department
without a doubt. Other than that, the department has been the
bed rock for the improvement of my analytical and problem
solving skills.

## In the next academic year, current level 2 undergraduates in the department will be seeking internships. Hence, what will be your preferred field for an internship?

Right now I’m following the software engineering path in my
degree and my plan is to become a software engineer one day.
Since I would like to gain hands-on experience in that field and
start my journey there, I would like to start my internship as an
intern software engineer in a reputed company with international
exposure.

## Finally, can you express what it is like to be around your fellow MITians?

Being around my fellow MITians is a fulfilling and enriching
experience, offering opportunities for relationship building,
personal and professional growth, and exposure to diverse
perspectives and experiences. It creates a supportive and
collaborative atmosphere that fosters learning and development.
Being a part of the IM family is the highlight of my university life.
